Hi, and welcome back.
In this video we're looking at raising errors in Python.
In the last lecture, I showed you the syntax real quickly,
but we're just gonna go over it again in this video
and give you a couple examples so that you know
in which scenarios you should be raising errors.
And also, I'm going to introduce a new piece
of Python syntax that I think is pretty cool.
So let's right-click our project that I've just created
in pyshon and create a new Python file.
And again I'm going to call it app.py.
This is a pretty popular name for your first or your
most important file in Python that you're going to run.
So you can right-click it and run it.
Normally, this file would be called app.py or run.py,
it's just a name for your main, most important file.
Let's say we have a code that is for a garage.
It stores cars and you can add cars to it.
Let's define a class garage that has an init method
and it defines self.cars to be called cars.
Sorry, to be equal to an empty list.
By the way, notice how, in an attempt to reduce
any indentation or tab errors, I have told pyshon
to show me any hidden characters or invisible characters.
You've got these small, tiny dots that
you can barely see without it being in a video.
You can certainly not see them very well on video,
but you've also got these lines here.
So you've got these dots, that are very small,
I'm gonna zoom in in the video just so you can see it,
and you've got this line here.
The line tells you where an indentation level begins,
or where it is maintained.
The dots show you the spaces, so you know these
are not tabs, they're spaces.
So if we were to add another line here,
notice how now we've got a three line,
three line long grey line here that tells us that
the indentation is maintained for all of this.
So this garage has an init method.
It has a len method.
That returns len of self.cars.
And also it's got an add_car method
that takes in a car that we're going to add as an argument.
However, we've not yet had the chance of working on this
too much, so what we're gonna do, is we're gonna print,
"This method is a work in progress."
This is obviously not the right way to go about it,
as you know now, but then let's say that
we are using this garage, so we're gonna say
ford garage is garage, and then ford.add_car
Fiesta
And then we wanna print the len of ford.
Now, this method here is going to print out something
onto the screen, but if we were not really paying attention,
if we were, for example saving this thing here to a file
or to a database, we may not realise that this is
printing something out, we would just see that
this is zero every time.
Let's run our app.
And as you can see here, it says,
"This method is a work in progress,"
First of all, and then it just says zero.
No matter how many cars we add, all we're gonna see is,
"This method is a work in progress"
Over and over again.
And if we were saving this length to a database or
just to a file or somewhere, it would always be zero.
If you run it, then you may wonder,
"Hey, what's going on here?"
And then you're going to have to actually
run the programme manually like so in PyCharm
to see the printouts, and then you'd see
"Ah, okay this method, this code isn't working yet."
So instead, of course, we can raise an error.
We can raise and all you do is raise
and then type a NotImplementedError.
And then you got brackets, so you're creating a new
NotImplementedError instance, this is a class,
you're creating a new object
of type NotImplementedError, and you're raising that.
Inside the brackets, you can put a small message,
We're gonna say, "We can't add cars to the garage yet."
Now when you run the app, which I'm gonna do by pressing
on the top right here, you get your nice trace back.
Then it says,
"NotImplementedError: We can't add cars to the garage yet."
Then it tells you where that error happened.
Raise NotImplementedError here, we did it manually.
It says line 9, in add_car, so that's line 9 of our code
inside the add_car function.
Now, where was this function called?
Where did this function originally happen?
On line 13, here,
and ford.add_car Fiesta
So as you can see, error happened here, inside this function
This function was called here.
So it tells you all the functions and parts
of your file where this error has gone through.
From being raised up until it reached the file level.
So that's two places right now.
So this is much better, cause now when we run the programme,
it's gonna crash, we're not gonna save
anything to the database, and we're gonna say,
"Oh, okay, it crashed, let's investigate."
We would see that a NotImplementedError was raised.
And that's all good.
So this is how you raise an error.
You use a key word, then you create a new object, you can
put something inside the brackets which will be the message.
Let's say we add another class.
That is gonna be a class of type car.
And that's take a make and a model
as parameters.
And then it's also gonna have a repr function of course,
because you always want these things.
And it's going to return a car with
self.make and self.model like so.
So this is just a representation of a car.
Remember the repr dunder function,
you can print out the car object
and it's gonna print something that looks like this.
Okay.
Now, the add_car function here should
only accept
the parameter being a car object.
So how do you do that?
Well pretty straightforward actually,
there is a built-in function in python called isinstance.
Isistance tells you whether the variable that you give it
is an instance of the type that you give it.
So this is the variable, car.
This is the type, which is the class, Car with a capital C.
So if not isinstance, so if car is not an instance of Car,
we're gonna raise a type error.
We're gonna say, "Tried to add a
"car class
"name
"to the garage,
"but you can only
"add Car objects."
So it's bit of a longer message there.
And all I've done is formatted the string
and said car._class_._name_
That's the name of the class of the variable.
So if this was a string, this would print out str.
If this was a class,
if this was a car, it would print out car.
This is just a nice bit of construct
that you can access for essentially any variable.
This gives you the class of the variable,
and this gives you the name of the class.
So we're trying to add that to the garage,
but you can only add car objects.
And then of course we're not gonna
raise a NotImplememntedError.
Now here we can say self.cars.append(car)
And you may wonder, "Well, why do you
"not put this in an else?"
You don't have to.
If the car is not an instance of the Car class,
we're gonna raise the error,
and that's gonna crash our programme.
We are never going to reach this line if that happens.
If however, it is an instance, it's not going to go in here,
and it's just going to go here.
So you don't need the else for anything,
because the only path--
there are only two paths.
One where this doesn't run because you raised the error,
and the other one where this runs,
and that's where you want it to run.
So that's sufficient.
So once again, let's try to add this string car.
And notice how now, we get a nice trace back here
that says, "tried to add an str to the garage,
"but you can only add Car objects."
And I think that's a pretty nice error message.
So, what can you do?
Well, you can create a new car object.
Let's say car, this is gonna be a Ford Fiesta,
and then you're gonna add that car,
which is a car object, into the add_car function.
Again, the value of the car variable is a Car object.
And that's what you are teleporting
over to this car variable.
So the value of the car variable is now
being assigned to this car variable here.
And then you're going to use that inside here.
So now we can run it.
And it all works.
We can print the len of ford.
And you'll see that one gets printed out,
which is pretty nice.
This is raising errors in Python.
It's really straightforward.
All you have to do is, when you want an error to happen,
raise it, create an object of it, remember the brackets,
and inside the brackets, if you want, it's totally optional,
you can put a nice message for when the error gets raised,
the person who's writing the code knows what happened.
Errors are most useful for developers.
Of course, if your users--
if somebody was downloading this code
over the internet saying, "I'm gonna run my garage."
Of course this is a bit basic for that,
but if somebody was downloading your code and using it,
they encountering a type error, may not be
terribly useful for them because
it doesn't tell them anything, they're not developers.
So errors are most useful for developers.
When you are writing code, or when somebody else is
helping you write code, working on a team,
having nice errors can be really helpful because then
when you make a mistake or you do something incorrectly,
you'll quickly get an error and you'll be able to fix it.
If you don't get errors and instead you print things out
like we did earlier on, you may never find out that
this is not working until you see that the programme
doesn't do what you were expecting.
So, raise errors, use them.
They'll be your best friend in no time.
So that's it for this video, raising errors in Python.
I'll see you in the next one.